#summary Game Design Document. The projects bible, If it’s not here, it won’t be in the game.
#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation
#sidebar TableOfContents

=Game Title=

==Game Name==

At the moment there's only a codename; The Escapist. The official name will come soon.

==Copyright Information==

GPL3

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version. 

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.



==GDD Version==

v0.1 by nev3ra. 06.06.09

=Table of Contents=

* [GDD#Game_Overview Game Overview]
    * [GDD#Game_Concept Game_Concept]
    * [GDD#Genre Genre]
    * [GDD#Target_Audience Target Audience]
    * [GDD#Game_Flow_Summary Game Flow Summary]
    * [GDD#Look_and_Feel Look and Feel]
    * [GDD#Project_Scope Project Scope]
        * [GDD#Number_of_Levels Number of Levels]
        * [GDD#Number_of_NPCs Number of NPCs]
        * [GDD#Number_of_Powerups Number of Powerups]
* [GDD#Gameplay_and_Mechanics Gameplay and Mechanics]
    * [GDD#Gameplay Gameplay]
        * [GDD#Game_Progression Game Progression]
        * [GDD#Mission/Challenge_Structure Mission/Challenge Structure]
        * [GDD#Objectives Objectives]
        * [GDD#Play_Flow Play Flow]
    * [GDD#Mechanics Mechanics]
        * [GDD#Physics Physics]
        * [GDD#Movement Movement]
            * [GDD#General_Movement General Movement]
            * [GDD#Other_Movement Other Movement]
        * [GDD#Objects Objects]
            * [GDD#Picking_up_Objects Picking up Objects]
            * [GDD#Moving_Objects Moving Objects]
        * [GDD#Actions Actions]
            * [GDD#Switches_and_Buttons Switches and Buttons]
            * [GDD#Picking_up_Carrying_and_Dropping Picking up Carrying and Dropping]
            * [GDD#Talking Talking]
            * [GDD#Reading Reading]
        * [GDD#Combat Combat]
        * [GDD#Economy Economy]



=Design History=

  * 06.06.09: We're at the concept phase, and closing up on the pre-alhpa stage.
  * 31.05.09: The project is started.

=Game Overview=

==Game Concept==

-

==Genre==

-

==Target Audience==

-

==Game Flow Summary==

How does the player move through the game.   Both through framing interface and the game itself.

==Look and Feel==

What is the basic look and feel of the game?  What is the visual style?

==Project Scope==

A summary of the scope of the game.

===Number of Levels===

10 levels, on 3 islands.

===Number of NPCs===

-

===Number of powerups===

-

=Gameplay and Mechanics=

-

==Gameplay==

-

===Game Progression===

-

===Mission/Challenge structure===

-

===Objectives===

What are the objectives of the game?

===Play Flow===

How does the game flow for the game player

==Mechanics==

What are the rules to the game, both implicit and explicit.  This is the model of the universe that the game works under.  Think of it as a simulation of a world, how do all the pieces interact?  This actually can be a very large section.

===Physics===

How does the physical universe work?

===Movement===

-

====General Movement==== 

-

====Other Movement====

-

===Objects===

-

====Picking up Objects==== 

-

====Moving Objects====

-

===Actions===

-

====Switches and Buttons====

-

====Picking up Carrying and Dropping====

-

====Talking====

-

====Reading====

-

===Combat===

-

===Economy===

How is the economy in the game handeled?

==Screen Flow==

-

===Screen Flow Chart===

A graphical description of how each screen is related to every other

===Screen Descriptions===

What is the purpose of each screen.

====Main Menu Screen====

-

====Options Screen====

-

====Load Game Screen====

-

===Game Options===

What are the options? How do they affect the game?

===Saving===

-

===Cheats and Easter Eggs===

-

=Story, Setting and Character=

-

==Story and Narrative==

Specific details like scripts and cut scenes may not be in this document but be in the Story Bible.  

===Back Story===

-

===Plot Elements===

-

===Cut Scenes===

-

==Game World==

-

===General Look and Feel===

10 levels on 3 islands. Etc.

====Act 1====

-

====Act 2====

-

====Act 3====

-

====Act 4====

-

====Act 5====

-

====Act 6====

-

====Act 7====

-

====Act 8====

-

====Act 9====

-

====Act 10====

-

==Characters==

-

===Main Character===

====Back Story====

-

====Personality====

-

====Look====

Animations, relevance to game story, relationships to other game characters etc.

===NPC 1===

-

===NPC 2===

-

=Levels=

-

==Level 1==

===Synopsis===

-

===Introductory Material===

Cut scene etc.

===Objectives===

-

===Physical Description===

-

===Map===

-

===Critical Path===

-

===Encounters===

-

===Level Walkthrough===

-

===Closing Material===

-

==Level 2==

===Synopsis===

-

===Introductory Material===

Cut scene etc.

===Objectives===

-

===Physical Description===

-

===Map===

-

===Critical Path===

-

===Encounters===

-

===Level Walkthrough===

-

===Closing Material===

-

=Interface=

-

==Visual System==

-

===HUD===

-

===Menus===

-

==Control System==

How does the player control the game?

==Audio==

-

==Music==

-

==Sound Effects==

-

=Artificial Intelligence=

-

==Enemy AI==

Villains and monsters etc.

==Non-Combat Characters==

-

==Friendly Characters==

-

==Player and collision detection==

-

=Technical=

-

==Target Hardware==

-

==Development Hardware and Software==

Linux only atm. (Testing etc)

==Development procedures and standards==

-

==Game Engine==

-

==Scripting language==

-

=Game Art=

-

==Concept Art==

-

==Style Guides==

-

==Characters==

-

==Enviroments==

-

==Equipment==

-

==Cutscenes==

-

==Miscellaneous==

-

=Appendices=

-

==Asset list==

-

===Art===

-

====Model and Texture list====

-

====Animation list====

-

====Effects list====

-

====Interface Art list====

-

====Cut Scene list====

-

===Sound===

-

====Enviromental Sounds====

-

====Weapons Sounds====

-

====Interface Sounds====

-

===Music===

-

====Ambient====

-

===="Action"====

-

====Victory====

-

====Defeat====